This document contains the questions and options from the 2018
Demographic Survey copied verbatim from the Google Form. A back of of
the questions is saved in the file menu. Changes can be made to this
document, but please flag them in **bold**.

Each section is a specific section (a page) in the overall survey as one
would see while taken the survey. Each section will start on its own
page for separationg purposes. In each section, the subsection title is
the question with a lists giving the options. The type of response is
also indicated.

# 2015 SDSS-IV Demographics

Welcome! Once again, the SDSS is surveying the basic demographics of
the Collaboration’s membership and leadership. Building off the 2014
SDSS-IV Demographics Survey (Lundgren et al. 2015), the goal is to track
changes in SDSS-IV’s makeup over time. In addition, several new
questions have been added to this 2015 Demographics Survey in response
to feedback from SDSS-IV members. The results of these and future
surveys will (1) assist the Collaboration in understanding the
involvement of its members, and (2) assist all members in taking maximum
advantage of the opportunities offered within SDSS. We welcome and
appreciate the help of ALL SDSS-IV participants, regardless of level of
involvement, in sharing their experiences and gathering a large sample!

For the purposes of this survey, we intend "leadership" and "leadership
role" to refer to any role whose tasks or responsibilities include
making decisions that affect other people and the survey, organizing
regular project discussions or meetings, professional mentoring, or
influencing/directing others in their tasks.

**ALL QUESTIONS ARE OPTIONAL**, but each will help address specific
concerns of the Sloan Foundation and the SDSS-IV’s leadership and
project committees. We also emphasize that, besides the responses
provided in this survey, no identifying or personal information is
transmitted.

Thank you!

## Career Information

1. My current career position is best described as:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Undergraduate student

     - Graduate student

     - Postdoc

     - Junior faculty

     - Senior faculty

     - Research scientist

     - Emeritus

     - Administration

     - Other:

2. I received my highest professional degree _____ years ago:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Still in degree program

     - 0-5 years

     - 6-10 years

     - 11-15 years

     - 16+ years

## Experience with SDSS

1. Compared with last year (2014), my general involvement with SDSS has:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Decreased

     - Remained roughly the same

     - Increased

     - Other:

2. My participation in SDSS has been helpful for the advancement of my career:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Strongly Disgree

     - Disagree

     - Neutral

     - Agree

     - Strongly Agree

     - Unsure

3. I have missed all or part of a telecon or collaboration meeting because it conflicted with family constraints:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Never

     - Rarely

     - Occasionally

     - Often

4. The SDSS fosters an inclusive climate:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Strongly Disagree

     - Disagree

     - Neutral

     - Agree

     - Strongly Agree

     - Unsure

5. Do you have any suggestions for how the climate of SDSS could be improved?

   **[Free Response]**

## Demographic Information

1. My primary home institution is located in:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Africa

     - Asia

     - Australia / Pacific Islands

     - Europe

     - North America (Canada, USA)

     - Meso/Central America (including Mexico)

     - South America

2. I identify my ethnicity (or nationality, if more appropriate) as:

   **[List all that apply.]**

3. I consider myself to be a racial/ethnic minority at my current institution:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

     - Unsure

4. I identify my gender as:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Female

     - Male

     - Non-binary

     - Other:

5. I consider myself a member of the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) community:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

6. I identify as having a sensory, physical, or mental disability:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

     - Unsure

7. I consider my partnership status to be:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Single

     - Married

     - Unmarried Partnership

     - Other:

8. I have children:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

9. The highest level of education completed by my parent or guardian: (Please select for parent with highest level of education)

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Did not complete primary school

     - Primary school

     - High school

     - Some college

     - College graduate

     - Master’s degree

     - Professional degree

     - PhD / Doctoral degree

## Leadership in SDSS

1. I was/am also involved in SDSS-III:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

2. (If “Yes” to the above) I consider(ed) myself to be in a leadership or decision-making role (official or unofficial) within SDSS-III: At any level – overall project, committees, and/or within BOSS, SEGUE-II, MARVELS, and/or APOGEE

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

3. I currently consider myself to be in a leadership or decision-making role (official or unofficial) within SDSS-IV: At any level – overall project, committees, and/or within eBOSS, TDSS, SPIDERS, MaNGA, and/or APOGEE-2

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

4. Compared with last year (2014), my involvement with leadership activities in SDSS has:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Decreased

     - Remained roughly the same

     - Increased

     - Other:

5. The primary role in which I lead others is officially recognized within the survey: e.g., a named position on an org chart

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

     - Unsure

6. Which activity(ies) best describes your leadership role?

   **[Check all that apply.]**

     - Making decisions that affect other people’s tasks

     - Making decisions that affect funding or operations

     - Professional mentorship of junior colleagues

     - Organization of regular scientific or technical meetings or
       discussions

     - Other

7. I ended up in this role via:

   **[Check all that apply.]**

     - Was explicitly encouraged to apply for position

     - Responded to open call for applications

     - Was asked to fill position without a formal application

     - Position was defined around work I was already doing

     - Was asked by others to take on tasks that ended up defining this
       role

     - Other

8. This role is an SDSS-funded position (Full or partial salary):

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Yes

     - No

9. My decision to take on this leadership role has been beneficial for my career:

   **[Multiple Choice]**

     - Strongly Disagree

     - Disagree

     - Neutral

     - Agree

     - Strongly Agree

     - Unsure
